{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!--<section class = "bg" id = "parralax-image-1" data-stellar-background-ratio="0.5"></section>\
        <section class = "content-section" id = "lyme-section-1">\
            <h1 class="header-1">Idea</h1>\
            <p class = "std-text">\
                One of the major projects that the Rock Ridge Team is undertaking this year is a project regarding Lyme Disease.  The project involves using several key proteins to make a construct that would essentially flush out Lyme bacteria from ticks using sequences known as CRISPR sequences.  CRISPR stands for Clustered Regularly-Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats.  Using these sequences, we plan on nullifying the DNA of the bacteria so that the tick loses the virus and doesn\'92t spread it.\
            </p>\
        </section>\
        \
        <section class = "bg" id = "parralax-image-2" data-stellar-background-ratio = "0.5"></section>\
        <section class = "content-section" id = "lyme-section-2">\
            <h1 class = "header-1">CRISPR-Cas9</h1>\
            <p class="std-text">\
                CRISPR is an emerging technology in synthetic biology which has been used to directly modify DNA.  The technology involves using short sequences, \'93Palindromic Repeats\'94, of RNA which will cause the replication of that DNA segment to never occur.  These sequences can also contain short sequences which can accumulate to proteins that help the organisms\'92 cells combat viruses or grow in different ways.  This is the \'93CRISPR\'94 portion of the technology, but what is Cas9?  Cas9 is a protein, Caspase-9, which is a nuclease, or a protein that cuts DNA.  The Cas9 protein will carry the \'93Repeats\'94, or for that matter, any sort of gene (when the protein is properly made).  Cas9 will unzip the DNA use its RNA to recognize where on the DNA it needs to bind.  Then it will cut the DNA at that location.  After this, the protein binds its sequences to the existing DNA.  These Cas9 sequences could carry beneficial genes that will help organisms.  When these sequences of DNA are implemented, Cas9 cuts the original sequence from the DNA so that it can\'92t bind.\
            </p>\
        </section>\
        \
        <section class = "bg" id = "parralax-image-3" data-stellar-background-ratio = "0.5"></section>\
        <section class = "content-section" id = "lyme-section-3">\
            <h1 class = "header-1">CRISPR, Cas9, and Lyme</h1>\
            <p class="std-text">\
            	CRISPR and Cas9 will be implemented into this year\'92s project to modify the DNA of Lyme bacteria in ticks.  The team plans on using target CRISPR sequences to target the critical portions of Lyme bacteria.  Then, the rest of the CRISPR will bind to the complements in the DNA, clogging it from being replicated.  In this way, when the tick injects Lyme disease into a human or other animal, harmful DNA doesn\'92t make its way and the bacteria will eventually be flushed out by immune systems.  \
            </p>\
        </section>\
        \
        <section class = "bg" id = "parralax-image-4" data-stellar-background-ratio = "0.5"></section>\
        <section class = "content-section" id = "lyme-section-4">\
            <h1 class = "header-1">Extending the Construct</h1>\
            <p class="std-text">\
                Our team hopes to extend our Lyme project to be used in other diseases that are caused by infection.  Examples of such diseases include malaria, dengue, yellow fever, etc.  Having this kind of engineered bacteria transmitted reduces the need for necessary drugs which have side effects.  In addition, it allows for these bacteria to be studied genetically.  Making a bacterial strain harmless using CRISPR will allow also for research into mutations, and history of the genome of those diseases, which provides new venues for research.\
            </p>\
        </section>-->}